Now, my theme is tap into the power beyond what is normal.
Jehovah God is the original source of all the power that exists in the universe.
Isaiah 4026 speaks of Jehovah's vast dynamic energy and awe-inspiring power.
And we know, eons ago, he used this tremendous power to create his only begotten Son,
who became a tremendous source of power himself.
But then, using him as a master worker, Jehovah brought into existence numerous other sources of power, both animate and inanimate.
Now, we humans were made in God's image.
And so, one of our main qualities just like Jehovah is power.
We can use that power in a good way, a bad way.
Now, Jehovah tells us, if you want to use it in a good way, I will help you.
You can tap into me the most powerful source of help in the universe, and I will help you use your power for good.
I will give you power beyond what is normal, second Corinthians, for seven.
But now, if you think about that scripture, today's scripture, doesn't it indicate that we have to expend the power that is normal?
Jehovah gives the power beyond normal.
Why? Why does Jehovah not give all the power?
Well, if you think about it, if he gave us all the power, we needed to keep our integrity.
Would that prove the devil a liar? Would that prove we are integrity keepers?
No, it would just prove Jehovah has a lot of power.
But Satan would claim that Jehovah is unfairly using his power to give us a free ride through our test and trials.
But when we do our part, we do what is within our human limitations.
And then, Jehovah steps in and supplies the power beyond that.
Well, Satan can rightfully say nothing.
Now, here's another question. Why do we need the power beyond what is normal that Jehovah offers to us?
Well, it's because of the tremendous power of our three great enemies.
1 John 5.19, the whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one.
Now, you think of a power that is capable of controlling more than 7.6 billion people on earth today.
I mean, that's some power of Satan.
Matthew 13.22 speaks about the deceptive power of riches.
That's just one of the powers the world promotes.
Hebrews 3.13 talks about the deceptive power of sin, identifying the power of our imperfect flesh to try to pull us into wrong conduct.
So we've got to have this power beyond what is normal to resist these tremendous power sources that are against us.
But now, think about this. Just because a power source exists does not mean you automatically benefit.
You have to tap into it.
For example, the wind has power.
A windmill taps into it.
Running water has tremendous power.
A hydroelectric power plant taps into it.
The sun has tremendous power.
Solar panels tap into it.
Well, we have to tap into Jehovah.
And interestingly, Jehovah provides guidelines as to how we can tap into his power.
He also gives warnings as to what can impede.
You can even say block receiving power from him.
So with that being said, let's identify four contrasting examples of what we're going to call power from Jehovah.
Blockers power from Jehovah receivers.
Now, first example, doubt and faith.
Open up to James, chapter 1.
And notice what Jehovah tells us about doubt.
James 1, verse 6.
But let him keep asking in faith not doubting at all.
For the one who doubts is like the wave of the sea driven by the wind and blown about.
In fact, that man should not expect to receive anything from Jehovah.
And that anything includes power.
In contrast, Matthew 17, 20, Jesus said,
if you have faith the size of a mustard grain, you will say to this mountain,
move from here to there.
And it will move.
And nothing will be impossible for you.
So with faith, Jehovah gives us tremendous power to accomplish amazing things.
And we have no valid reason really to doubt Jehovah or his organization.
Now, let's get our second example.
Power blocker power receiver.
Discouragement.
Hoping in Jehovah.
Proverbs 24 10 says,
If you become discouraged in the day of distress, your strength or power will be meager.
So being overly discouraged can interfere with our ability to receive power from Jehovah.
But if we carefully throw our burden on Jehovah, we rise above that situation.
We put complete hope in Jehovah that he's going to help us.
And any problems we have sooner or later will be eliminated.
We can receive power.
Open up to Isaiah 40.
And here's a scripture in this vein.
Isaiah 40 verse 31.
But those hoping in Jehovah will regain power.
They will soar on wings like eagles.
They will run and not grow weary.
They will walk and not tire out.
Well, let's move to our third example.
Being double or half-hearted.
Being whole-hearted.
Figuratively, Psalm 122 and 119, 113,
talks about half-hearted, double-hearted, person.
And Jehovah hates them according to the Bible.
Double-hearted trying to serve two masters.
Trying, for example, to use the world to the full, but also be a servant of Jehovah.
Half-hearted person.
Lacks, enthusiasm, zeal, these lukewarm in his service.
Well, Jehovah indicates such individuals will receive no power from him.
But do you remember what 2 Chronicles 16 verse 9 says?
For the eyes of Jehovah are roving about through all the earth to show his strength or power.
And behalf of those whose heart is complete toward him.
Well, let's get our last example.
Bad conduct, sacred service.
Ephesians 4, 25 through 29, encourages us not to steal, not to be deceptive,
not to let a rotten saying come out of our mouth and so forth.
And then interestingly, the next verse, verse 30, says,
do not be grieving God's Holy Spirit.
So clearly, Jehovah is making it obvious that any of that kind of conduct
grieves, restricts, limits, our ability to receive Holy Spirit,
which is one of the main ways Jehovah provides power to us.
In contrast, Hebrews 4, 12 says, the Word of God is alive and exerts power when we read it and meditate on it, we get power.
Acts talk about how the disciples sublocated and they received Holy Spirit.
It talks about how they were all gathered together.
They were filled with Holy Spirit.
Jesus said that you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
So when we pray, supplicate, we read and meditate on God's Word, we meet together, we witness about the kingdom.
We receive power by means of the Holy Spirit.
So summing up our discussion, if we maintain strong faith, not doubting it all,
to resist discouragement by hoping in Jehovah.
Three, refuse to develop a half or double heart, but keep a complete heart in serving Jehovah.
And four, we really work hard to avoid bad conduct, but zealously pursue sacred service.
Then we will continue to tap into Jehovah's limitless power beyond what is normal
and despite the power of our great enemies, we will triumph over them.
And your dear brothers and sisters will make it into the new world, either by means of the overland passageway.
Through the great tribulation, never died all, or by means of the underground tunnel, the resurrection provision.